Staggered co-chair elections (#21)
w3c-cg/solid: charter/2023-09-01.md

#### Choosing a Chair

> * At any given time there may be up to three co-chairs, each holding one seat for a two year term, which may be shortened if they step down or are removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* At any given time there may be up to three co-chairs, each holding one seat for a two year term, measured from their election date, which may be shortened if they step down or are removed.
```

> * In the first election after ratification of this charter, all seats will be up for election. Thereafter, elections will be held whenever there are vacant seats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the first election after ratification of this charter, all seats will be up for election. Thereafter, elections will be held whenever there is a vacant seat.
```

> * At any given time there may be up to three co-chairs, each holding one seat for a 2 year cycle, or shorter in case they step down or are removed.
> * In the first election after ratification of this charter, all seats will be up for election. Thereafter, elections will be held whenever there are vacant seats.
> * Reelection is restricted to two consecutive terms, with the possibility of being reelected after sitting out one election cycle.

Reviewer: This does not say anything about staggering elections.

There needs to be some mechanism by which to select one or two co-chairs who will initially serve a one or three year term. This would set up staggered elections going forward.

I think the intent is that elections are meant to be held in the same week of each year, except when filling seats that become vacant outside of this cycle. I think that the intent is also that co-chairs elected to fill such mid-term vacancies are meant to serve to the end of that term, not for two years from their election.

None of the above is expressed by the existing text, nor by my suggested changes below, which should be applied whether or not the above comments are acted upon.
```suggestion
* At any given time there may be up to three co-chairs, each holding one seat for a two year term, which may be shortened if they step down or are removed.
* In the first election after ratification of this charter, all seats will be up for election. Thereafter, elections will be held whenever there are vacant seats.
* Reelection is restricted to two consecutive terms, with the possibility of being reelected after sitting out one election cycle.
```

Author: Hi Ted, thanks for your feedback and input!
> There needs to be some mechanism by which to select one or two co-chairs who will initially serve a one or three year term. This would set up staggered elections going forward.

In our case, we already achieved that, since Hadrian and I are now starting our second year, while elf Pavlik is starting his first year.

> I think the intent is that elections are meant to be held in the same week of each year

Not necessarily; it did work out this way now, but it could change again if there is another chair one day who does not fill an exact number of years.

> I think that the intent is also that co-chairs elected to fill such mid-term vacancies are meant to serve to the end of that term, not for two years from their election.

No, that's how we interpreted the old text, and what we want to move away from. That's why the text about 'interim' is removed entirely. With this PR, there is no concept of interim anymore. Everybody starts whenever a seat becomes available, and everybody serves either the planned two years, or shorter.

Author: > None of the above is expressed by the existing text, nor by my suggested changes below, which should be applied whether or not the above comments are acted upon.

Thanks! Done.

> * Reelection is restricted to two consecutive terms, with the possibility of being reelected after sitting out one election cycle.

Reviewer: It's unclear whether these "two consecutive terms" are two *full* terms, or two elections, even if the first is to fill a mid-term vacancy, no matter how few months remain in that term. Note that, for instance, the US president is restricted to two elections to full terms but these may be in addition to a full-term-minus-one-day, if that results from succession to a vacancy by resignation, death, impeachment, etc.

Author: Interesting! This doesn't apply though, since we removed the concept of interim (non-full) terms.

If we change the sentence "Reelection is restricted to two consecutive terms" to "Reelection is restricted to two consecutive full terms" then a chair could step down one day before the end of their second term and still be reelectable, thus avoiding applicability this clause, which would be weird and unintended. So I think it's correct to leave it as two consecutive terms, whether full or not.

> * Current chairs will select a date for elections, which will set a nomination period of two weeks, starting 4 weeks prior to the election.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Current chairs will select a date for elections, with a nomination period of two weeks starting four weeks prior to the election.
```

* For an individual to run for election, they must self-nominate and make a statement regarding their background and why they are running, on the group mailing list.
* The current chairs will host a conference call during the nomination period, during which candidates may make a statement and answer questions from the community.

> * If, at the end of nominations, any given seat only has a single candidate, that candidate immediately wins that seat. For any seats with multiple nominees, there will be an election for those seats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If, at the end of nominations, any given seat only has a single candidate, that candidate immediately wins that seat. There will be an election for any seat(s) with multiple nominees.
```
